Every visual in this game, the
characters, the animations, the
background, the UI, and even the logo
was made in Pixel Lab. No templates, no
pre-made assets, just one locked style
and everything animated with text. This
is a music synced game inspired by
Plants Versus Zombies. The combat is on
beat. So enemies attack on the beat,
defenders attack on the beat. And
instead of everything being about
cooldowns and raw DPS, the core loop is
about timing. You're playing around the
rhythm. So this is how I started. Just a
grid, a few static characters, and the
core mechanics. I was slowly recreating
the basics of Plants Versus Zombies,
placing units on a grid, but syncing
attacks to a metronome. Visually, it was
extremely bare bones, like five static
characters, no animations, no real
identity at all. But mechanically, it
kind of worked. And once the foundation
was there, that's when I stopped adding
features and focused on rebuilding the
visuals properly. That's where Pixel Lab
came in. The main tool I used was create
images in the same style. So I started
with a single reference image which I
made with the create small to large
image tool and used it as the visual
anchor for everything. So, new enemies,
different poses, different actions,
same look, no visual drift at all. That
one decision made it possible to build a
full set of game assets that actually
feel like they belong together.
Characters in this game aren't standard
sprites. They don't fit clean animation
templates, and that's intentional. So
instead of forcing them into presets, I
generated each character and pose inside
the same style system. Each enemy has a
different role mechanically, but
visually they all feel like part of the
same world. For animation, I relied
entirely on animate with text. So
instead of drawing frames, I described
the motions. So basically this guy is
throwing cassette tapes and this woman
is making holograms of herself which I
think is pretty cool. And then we got
this guy. He's roller skating. So we
don't really have a template for that.
Once the characters were done everything
else followed the same system. So UI
elements followed the same visual rules.
I was going for like a graffiti and like
paint splashes all over the place type
vibe and I ended up coming up with this
subway station which I think is pretty
cool. And then my buddy George from the
Pixel Lab Discord server, you guys
should check it out by the way. He
helped me make the new background by
using the new inpaint tool since the
image is pretty big in comparison to the
characters. leave a W George down in the
comments. So, when I was done with all
the visuals, all I had to do was bring
everything into the engine. So, on the
technical side, the game is built in
Phaser 3. It's lightweight, flexible,
and works really well for grid-based
games like this. To speed things up, I
used an AI assisted IDE. Specifically, I
was using anti-gravity by Google, which
is basically the same idea as cursor,
windsurf, or any modern ID with a coding
agent built in. I paired that with
Claude Opus for most of the logic. That
said, the exact setup doesn't really
matter. You can use any IDE you're
comfortable with and whichever coding
model fits your workflow. models like
Codeex by OpenAI, Gemini by Google, or
Claude by Anthropic are all solid
choices. The IDE helps you move faster
in code, but Pixel Lab is what made the
game look like a game. This is part one.
This was all about building the visual
foundation, the style, the characters,
and the animations. Next time I can push
this much further. New enemies, new
maps, new mechanics, more complex
musicdriven interactions.
If you want to see part two, let me know
down in the comments and tell me what
you want me to build next.